Process-Oriented Mindset is important, particularly in
environments where technical contributions must integrate
seamlessly into larger systems. P6 described this as essential
“process thinking” and emphasized that many technically
capable individuals “can go down a rabbit hole with that skill,”
losing sight of the broader impact. Instead, managers expect
candidates to demonstrate “systems thinking. . . seeing how does
this actually flow through, how does this affect everything else
around it, what is the wider scope beyond just this one piece.”
This holistic mindset is crucial not just for writing effective code
but for designing sustainable workflows. As P6 pointed out,
the industry buzz around automation often oversimplifies the
real challenge: “writing a script to do the thing we were doing
manually. . . is not really helping anyone” if it ignores long-
term maintainability. Software Engineering candidates need the
ability to “come at it with a fresh mind on how I can change the
process to make it smoother,” combining critical thinking with
technical efficiency. P12 reinforced this for software engineers
from a release management perspective, noting the industry
expectation for candidates to be “intentional with releases,”
including an understanding of “versioning, semantic versioning,
bundling.”
